[RF DOCS] Active Record Basics Guide [ci-skip] (#51226)
rails/rails: guides/source/active_record_basics.md

----------------------

Active Record is the M in [MVC][] - the model - which is the layer of the system
responsible for representing data and business logic. Active Record helps you
create and use Ruby objects whose attributes require persistent storage
to a database.

> There is some industry jargon around the term "Active Record". Active Record in Rails is an implementation of a software architecture pattern by the same name. It's also a description of something called an [Object Relational Mapping][ORM] system. The below sections explain these terms:

Reviewer: I think you are technically correct. However I feel this distracts from the main point here and might confuse junior devs getting started (whom I believe are the primary audience for this guide).

> There is some industry jargon around the term "Active Record". Active Record in Rails is an implementation of a software architecture pattern by the same name. It's also a description of something called an [Object Relational Mapping][ORM] system. The below sections explain these terms:

Reviewer 2: > I think you are technically correct. However I feel this distracts from the main point here and might confuse junior devs getting started (whom I believe are the primary audience for this guide).

Hi @mdh just wondering if your comment was regarding the edits or another comment?

When writing applications using other programming languages or frameworks, it
may be necessary to write a lot of configuration code. This is particularly true
for ORM frameworks in general. However, if you follow the conventions adopted by
Rails, you'll write very little to no configuration code when creating Active Record models.

Rails adopts the idea that if you configure your applications in the same way
most of the time, then that way should be the default. Explicit configuration
should be needed only in those cases where you can't follow the convention.

To take advantage of convention over configuration in Active Record, there are
some naming and schema conventions to follow. And in case you need to, it is possible to [override naming conventions](#overriding-the-naming-conventions).

### Naming Conventions

Active Record uses this naming convention to map between models (represented by
Ruby objects) and database tables:

> Rails will pluralize your model's class names to find the respective database

Reviewer 3: It might be good to add a note in this paragraph emphasizing the recommendation to write the models in English due to the rules of the language itself. I have seen several large projects struggling with this.

table. For example, a class named `Book` maps to a database table named
**books**. The Rails pluralization mechanisms are very powerful and capable of
pluralizing (and singularizing) both regular and irregular words. This uses the
[Active Support](active_support_core_extensions.html#pluralize) [pluralize
method](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Inflector.html#method-i-pluralize),
if you're curious.

For class names composed of two or more words, the model class name will follow

> the Ruby conventions of using a CamelCase name. The database table name, in that

Reviewer 3: This should be PascalCase instead of camelCase.

Reviewer 4: As CamelCase is the more common term and used in Rails since the beginning, I think it's fine to keep it.
Rails even has a method for it:
https://edgeapi.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Inflector.html#method-i-camelize

Reviewer 3: Yes, it's common, but isn't that definition incorrect? If you ask someone to think of camel case, the first thought is `myVariable`, not `MyVariable`. That's pascal case to my understanding.

Reviewer 4: Previous PR's to change it to PascalCase have been rejected: https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/36554 https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/42068

Author: Thanks for pointing this out @brunoprietog. And thanks for that `camelize` method api link and the history of these terms around Rails @p8.

As per that api doc, a distinction is made between UppderCamelCase and lowerCamelCase, and we will use that term in the Active Record guide.

**books**. The Rails pluralization mechanisms are very powerful and capable of
pluralizing (and singularizing) both regular and irregular words. This uses the
[Active Support](active_support_core_extensions.html#pluralize) [pluralize
method](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Inflector.html#method-i-pluralize),
if you're curious.

* Model Class - Singular with the first letter of each word capitalized (e.g., `BookClub`).
* Database Table - Plural with underscores separating words (e.g., `book_clubs`).
For class names composed of two or more words, the model class name will follow
the Ruby conventions of using a CamelCase name. The database table name, in that
case, will be a snake_case name. For example:

* `BookClub` - is the model class, singular with the first letter of each word capitalized.
* `book_clubs` - is the matching database table, plural with underscores separating words.

Here are some more examples of model class names and corresponding table names:

| Model / Class    | Table / Schema |
| ---------------- | -------------- |
| `Article`        | `articles`     |
| `LineItem`       | `line_items`   |
| `Deer`           | `deers`        |

> | `Mouse`          | `mice`         |

Author: Nice I like octopus -> octopi. We removed the `mouse -> mice` during internal review as there was feedback that there were too many examples. Hoping the `person -> people` shows off the power and is mroe realistic model and database table name 😄

Inheritance (STI). If you are not using STI, use a different word to accurately
describe the data you are modeling.

Creating Active Record Models
-----------------------------

When generating a Rails application, an abstract `ApplicationRecord` class will
be created in `app/models/application_record.rb`. The `ApplicationRecord` class
inherits from [`ActiveRecord::Base`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Base.html) and it's what turns a regular Ruby class into
an Active Record model.

`ApplicationRecord` is the base class for all Active Record models in your app.
To create a new model, subclass the `ApplicationRecord` class and you're good to
go:

```ruby
class Book < ApplicationRecord
end
```

This will create a `Book` model, mapped to a `books` table in the
database, where each column in the table is mapped to attributes of the `Book` class. An instance of `Book` can represent a row in the `books` table. The `books` table can be created using an SQL statement like this:

```sql
CREATE TABLE books (
  id int(11) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  title varchar(255),
  author varchar(255),
  PRIMARY KEY  (id)

> );

Reviewer 5: Should this example also include the `created_at` and `updated_at` columns to make it consistent all the way through the example? Right now the migration will produce these columns, but they're not represented in the SQL. 

It's a bit of a trade-off, since it's secondary to the point here, so keeping it simple has value.

Author: Yeah considered this. Going with keeping it focused on the main point to keep it simple. Added a comment in the code snippet about `created_at`, `updated_at` for the migration.

```

Database tables in Rails are typically created using [Active Record Migrations](#migrations) and not raw SQL. A migration for the `books` table above can be generated like this:

```bash
$ rails generate migration CreateBooks title:string author:string
```

and results in this:

```ruby
# Note: the `id` column, as the primary key, is automatically created by convention. As are `created_at` and `updated_at` columns.

# /db/migrate/20240220143807_create_books.rb
class CreateBooks < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def change
    create_table :books do |t|
      t.string :title
      t.string :author

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```

The SQL as well as the migration above declare a table with three columns: `id`,

> `title`, and `author`. Each row of this table can be represented by an instance

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
`title` and `author`. Each row of this table can be represented by an instance
```
✂️

Author: The oxford comma is per the guildes guideline https://guides.rubyonrails.org/api_documentation_guidelines.html#oxford-comma

> of the `Book` class with the same three attributes, `id`, `title`, and `author`.

Reviewer 6: Maybe this line could be better with a colon, like:
```suggestion
of the `Book` class with the same three attributes: `id`, `title` and `author`.
```

or perhaps delete the attributes since they are quoted in line 203-204

```suggestion
of the `Book` class with the same three attributes.
```

-----------------------------

When generating a Rails application, an abstract `ApplicationRecord` class will
be created in `app/models/application_record.rb`. The `ApplicationRecord` class
inherits from [`ActiveRecord::Base`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Base.html) and it's what turns a regular Ruby class into
an Active Record model.

`ApplicationRecord` is the base class for all Active Record models in your app.
To create a new model, subclass the `ApplicationRecord` class and you're good to
go:

```ruby
class Book < ApplicationRecord
end
```

This will create a `Book` model, mapped to a `books` table in the
database, where each column in the table is mapped to attributes of the `Book` class. An instance of `Book` can represent a row in the `books` table. The `books` table can be created using an SQL statement like this:

```sql
CREATE TABLE books (
  id int(11) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  title varchar(255),
  author varchar(255),
  PRIMARY KEY  (id)
);
```

Database tables in Rails are typically created using [Active Record Migrations](#migrations) and not raw SQL. A migration for the `books` table above can be generated like this:

```bash

> $ rails generate migration CreateBooks title:string author:string

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ bin/rails generate migration CreateBooks title:string author:string
```

of the `Book` class with the same three attributes: `id`, `title`, and `author`.
You can access a book's attributes like this:

```irb
irb> book = Book.new
=> #<Book:0x00007fbdf5e9a038 id: nil, title: nil, author: nil, created_at: nil, updated_at: nil>

irb> book.title = "The Hobbit"
=> "The Hobbit"
irb> book.title
=> "The Hobbit"
```

NOTE: You can generate the Active Record model class as well as a matching migration with this command `bin/rails generate model Book title:string author:string`. This creates both `/app/models/book.rb` and `/db/migrate/20240220143807_create_books.rb` files.

### Creating Namespaced Models

Active Record models are placed under the `app/models` directory by default. But you may want to organize your models by placing similar models under their own folder and namespace. For example, `order.rb` and `review.rb` under `app/models/product` with `Product::Order` and `Product::Review` class names, respectively. You can create namespaced models with Active Record.

In the case where `Product` module does not already exist, the `generate` command will create everything like this:

> ```irb

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```bash
```

> $ rails generate model Product/Order

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ bin/rails generate model Product/Order
```

Reviewer 7: Perhaps we should use `Product::Order` instead of `Product/Order` to make it more like a Ruby namespace? It would match the generated code too:

```suggestion
$ bin/rails generate model Product::Order
```

      invoke  active_record
      create    db/migrate/20240306194227_create_product_orders.rb
      create    app/models/product/order.rb
      create    app/models/product.rb
      invoke    test_unit
      create      test/models/product/order_test.rb
      create      test/fixtures/product/orders.yml
```

In the case where `Product` module already exists, you will be asked to resolve the conflict:

```bash

> $ rails generate model Product/Order

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ bin/rails generate model Product/Order
```

      invoke  active_record
      create    db/migrate/20240305140356_create_product_orders.rb
      create    app/models/product/order.rb
    conflict    app/models/product.rb
  Overwrite /Users/bhumi/Code/rails_guides/app/models/product.rb? (enter "h" for help) [Ynaqdhm]
```

> Once the namespaced model generation is successful, the `Product` and `Order` classes looks like this:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Once the namespaced model generation is successful, the `Product` and `Order` classes look like this:
```

```ruby
# app/models/product.rb

> module Product

Reviewer 3: Great! What do you think about adding the second case? Assuming that the Product class already exists? Then the prefix wouldn't be needed.

Reviewer 7: That could be a nice small addition towards the end: if `Product` is already a model declared as 

```ruby
# app/models/product.rb
class Product < ApplicationRecord
end
```

Then adding namespace models such as `Product::Order` results in the `table_name` being generated automatically: `Product::Order.table_name => "product_orders"`, without the need to explicitly set the prefix.

Author: Done!

```

and results in this:

```ruby
# Note:
# The `id` column, as the primary key, is automatically created by convention.
# Columns `created_at` and `updated_at` are added by `t.timestamps` line.

# /db/migrate/20240220143807_create_books.rb
class CreateBooks < ActiveRecord::Migration
  def change
    create_table :books do |t|
      t.string :title
      t.string :author

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```

The SQL as well as the migration above declare a table with three columns: `id`,
`title`, and `author`. Each row of this table can be represented by an instance
of the `Book` class with the same three attributes: `id`, `title`, and `author`.
You can access a book's attributes like this:

```irb
irb> book = Book.new
=> #<Book:0x00007fbdf5e9a038 id: nil, title: nil, author: nil, created_at: nil, updated_at: nil>

irb> book.title = "The Hobbit"
=> "The Hobbit"
irb> book.title
=> "The Hobbit"
```

NOTE: You can generate the Active Record model class as well as a matching
migration with this command `bin/rails generate model Book title:string
author:string`. This creates both `/app/models/book.rb` and
`/db/migrate/20240220143807_create_books.rb` files.

> ### Creating Namespaced Models

Reviewer 8: This section switches to `Product` instead of `Book` for the example. Should it be changed to `Book` too?

Reviewer 7: @asavageiv sure, would you like to send a PR with the change?

Reviewer 8: Sure

Reviewer 8: https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/51355

that should be used:

```ruby
class Book < ApplicationRecord
  self.table_name = "my_books"
end
```

If you do so, you will have to manually define the class name that is hosting
the fixtures (`my_books.yml`) using the `set_fixture_class` method in your

> test definition:

Reviewer 5: Either in this paragraph or following the code snippet, we should link to the [Testing Rails Applications](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/testing.html) and specifically [The Low Down On Fixtures](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/testing.html#the-low-down-on-fixtures) section.

In the paragraph:

```
If you do so, you will have to manually define the class name that is hosting 
[the fixtures](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/testing.html#the-low-down-on-fixtures) (`my_books.yml`) 
using the `set_fixture_class` method in your test definition:
```

After the code block:
`NOTE: To learn more about testing and fixtures, read the guide on [Testing Rails Applications](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/testing.html)`

Rails will throw an error during migrations such as:
`you can't redefine the primary key column 'id' on 'my_books'.`
`To define a custom primary key, pass { id: false } to create_table.`

CRUD: Reading and Writing Data
------------------------------

CRUD is an acronym for the four verbs we use to operate on data: **C**reate,
**R**ead, **U**pdate and **D**elete. Active Record automatically creates methods
to allow you to read and manipulate data stored in your application's database tables.

Active Record makes it seamless to perform CRUD operations by using these high-level methods that abstract away database access details. Note that all of these convenient methods result in SQL statement(s) that are executed against the underlying database.

The examples below show a few of the CRUD methods as well as the resulting SQL statements.

### Create

Active Record objects can be created from a hash, a block, or have their
attributes manually set after creation. The `new` method will return a new
object while `create` will return the object and save it to the database.

For example, given a `Book` model with attributes of `title` and `author`,

> the `create` method call will create and save a new record into the database:

Reviewer 5: This needs to be clearer and should mirror the statement below for `#new`

```suggestion
the `create` method call will create an object and save a new record into the database:
```

```ruby

> book = Book.create(title: "The Lord of the Rings", author: "J.R.R. Tolkien")

Reviewer 5: Perhaps we should add another line to the example that inspects the object to show that the `id` is set to an integer, to contrast it with the same example in the `#new` example below:

```suggestion
book = Book.create(title: "The Lord of the Rings", author: "J.R.R. Tolkien")

book.inspect
# "#<Book id:1 title: \"The Lord of the Rings\" author: \"J.R.R. Tolkien\" created_at: nil, updated_at: nil>"
```

Author: Updated!

book.save

# Now the `book` record is committed to the database.
```

Finally, if a block is provided, both `create` and `new` will yield the new
object to that block for initialization, while only `create` will persist
the resulting object to the database:

```ruby
book = Book.new do |b|
  b.title = "Metaprogramming Ruby 2"
  b.author = "Paolo Perrotta"
end

book.save
```

The resulting SQL statement from both `book.save` and `Book.create` look something like this:

```sql
/* Note that `created_at` and `updated_at` are automatically set */

INSERT INTO "books" ("title", "author", "created_at", "updated_at") VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?) RETURNING "id"  [["title", "Metaprogramming Ruby 2"], ["author", "Paolo Perrotta"], ["created_at", "2024-02-22 20:01:18.469952"], ["updated_at", "2024-02-22 20:01:18.469952"]]
```

### Read

Active Record provides a rich API for accessing data within a database. You can query a single record or multiple records, filter them by any attribute, order them, group them, select specific fields, and do anything you can do with SQL.

```ruby
# Return a collection with all books
books = Book.all

# Return a single book
first_book = Book.first
last_book = Book.last

> random_book = Book.take

Reviewer 3: This is not really random. If you repeat this same query you will get the same result. Maybe change random to some? Or some other word, sorry, I can't think of it right now.

Reviewer 9: Even its not some it will always return the first record. resulting sql gives the clear picture.
```
SELECT "books".* FROM "books" LIMIT ? [["LIMIT", 1]]
```
since we have already used `first_book` maybe `selected_book` can be used.

```

The above results in the following SQL:

```sql
# Book.all
SELECT "books".* FROM "books"

# Book.first
SELECT "books".* FROM "books" ORDER BY "books"."id" ASC LIMIT ?  [["LIMIT", 1]]

# Book.last
SELECT "books".* FROM "books" ORDER BY "books"."id" DESC LIMIT ?  [["LIMIT", 1]]

# Book.take
SELECT "books".* FROM "books" LIMIT ?  [["LIMIT", 1]]
```

We can also find specific books with `find_by` and `where`:

```ruby
# Return the first book by the given author

> book = Book.find_by(author: "J.R.R. Tolkien")

Reviewer 3: This is very subjective, but teaching Rails I've found that people often confuse `find_by` and `where` when starting out. Since in this example of the `Book` model the `author` string is logically likely to be repeated and the `title` string is less likely to be repeated, I feel it would be better to illustrate the example by searching for the first book by title rather than by author. It is a case more similar to real life, since when you use `find_by` you generally search for more unique things as opposed to `where`.

Also, I don't know if it will be so redundant, but I think it would be good to specifically emphasize that `find_by` returns the first record and `where` returns an array of records in the line above, before the code comments.

Well, this same case is repeated a few times below, personally I would also suggest changing it to `title` instead of `author`.

What do you think?

Author: I like the idea of changing to `title` for `find_by`. It's a good point about adding the distinction between what's returned - a single record vs. an array.

# Shorthand for Book.find_by(id: 42)

> book = Book.find(42)

Reviewer 10: I wonder if there's a way to say this that makes it clear that `Book.find(42)` is similar to `Book.find_by(id: 42)` without implying that the two are equivalent. The major difference in my mind (but not the only substantive difference) is how they handle the case where there is no record with the id 42: `find` will raise an exception, while `find_by` will return `nil`. The other differences (like the fact that you can pass multiple IDs or an array of IDs to `find` and it'll try to return all the records matching those IDs) may be too in-depth for a basic guide.

Author: Very good point. updated!

### Update

Once an Active Record object has been retrieved, its attributes can be modified
and it can be saved to the database.

```ruby
book = Book.find_by(author: "J.R.R. Tolkien")
book.title = "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring"
book.save
```

A shorthand for this is to use a hash mapping attribute names to the desired
value, like so:

```ruby
book = Book.find_by(author: "J.R.R. Tolkien")
book.update(title: "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring")
```

the `update` results in the following SQL:

```sql
/* Note that `updated_at` is automatically set */

 UPDATE "books" SET "title" = ?, "updated_at" = ? WHERE "books"."id" = ?  [["title", "The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring"], ["updated_at", "2024-02-22 20:51:13.487064"], ["id", 104]]
```

This is useful when updating several attributes at once. Similar to `create`, using `update` will commit the updated records to the database.

If you'd like to update several records in bulk **without callbacks or
validations**, you can update the database directly using `update_all`:

```ruby

> Book.update_all status: "already own"

Reviewer 5: All of the other examples use brackets, so I think we should be consistent:

```suggestion
Book.update_all(status: "already own")
```

# Note that the `id` is assigned as this record is committed to the database.
book.inspect
# => "#<Book id: 106, title: \"The Lord of the Rings\", author: \"J.R.R. Tolkien\", created_at: \"2024-03-04 19:15:58.033967000 +0000\", updated_at: \"2024-03-04 19:15:58.033967000 +0000\">"
```

While the `new` method will instantiate an object *without* saving it to the database:

```ruby
book = Book.new
book.title = "The Hobbit"
book.author = "J.R.R. Tolkien"

# Note that the `id` is not set for this object.
book.inspect
# => "#<Book id: nil, title: \"The Hobbit\", author: \"J.R.R. Tolkien\", created_at: nil, updated_at: nil>"

# The above `book` is not yet saved to the database.

book.save
book.id # => 107

# Now the `book` record is committed to the database and has an `id`.
```

Finally, if a block is provided, both `create` and `new` will yield the new
object to that block for initialization, while only `create` will persist
the resulting object to the database:

```ruby
book = Book.new do |b|
  b.title = "Metaprogramming Ruby 2"
  b.author = "Paolo Perrotta"
end

book.save
```

The resulting SQL statement from both `book.save` and `Book.create` look something like this:

```sql

> /* Note that `created_at` and `updated_at` are automatically set */

Reviewer 7: :+1:

INSERT INTO "books" ("title", "author", "created_at", "updated_at") VALUES (?, ?, ?, ?) RETURNING "id"  [["title", "Metaprogramming Ruby 2"], ["author", "Paolo Perrotta"], ["created_at", "2024-02-22 20:01:18.469952"], ["updated_at", "2024-02-22 20:01:18.469952"]]
```

### Read

Active Record provides a rich API for accessing data within a database. You can query a single record or multiple records, filter them by any attribute, order them, group them, select specific fields, and do anything you can do with SQL.

```ruby
# Return a collection with all books
books = Book.all

# Return a single book
first_book = Book.first
last_book = Book.last
book = Book.take
```

The above results in the following SQL:

```sql
# Book.all
SELECT "books".* FROM "books"

# Book.first
SELECT "books".* FROM "books" ORDER BY "books"."id" ASC LIMIT ?  [["LIMIT", 1]]

# Book.last
SELECT "books".* FROM "books" ORDER BY "books"."id" DESC LIMIT ?  [["LIMIT", 1]]

# Book.take
SELECT "books".* FROM "books" LIMIT ?  [["LIMIT", 1]]
```

> We can also find specific books with `find_by` and `where`. While `find_by` returns a single record, `where` returns an array:

Reviewer 7: I don't know if eventually someone will come by saying it's technically not "an array" until it's loaded/accessed, etc. (probably not, but I could see it happening...), maybe we can sidestep that by saying it returns "a list of records"?

```suggestion
We can also find specific books with `find_by` and `where`. While `find_by` returns a single record, `where` returns a list of records:
```
